lookup-join/README.md, before:

# Lookup Join and Pre-aggregated Insert using Flink Table Store
*Read this in other languages* [简体中文](https://github.com/LadyForest/flink-table-store-101/blob/master/lookup-join/README.zh.md)

## Brief Introduction
This is a handy demo to illustrate how Flink Table Store (*abbr.* **FTS**) supports look-up join and use pre-aggregate as merge engine. The aggregated result is visualized by Apache Zeppelin.
![visualize result](../pictures/visualize-result.png)

The TPC-H toolkit, MySQL and Zeppelin notebook are running on docker containers, and Flink release and FTS dependencies are downloaded and running on your host machine.

#### About Data Genration  
[TPC-H](https://www.tpc.org/tpch/) as a classic Ad-hoc query benchmark, it reveals not only the performance of SUT (system under test), but also models all sorts of data requirements close to the business senario in the real-word. This demo chooses `orders`, `customer` and `nation` and simplified TPC-H Q5 to demonstrate the capability of FTS.

Schema of `orders` 
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>main order's key, primary key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_custkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderstatus</td>
        <td>CHAR(1)</td>
        <td>order's status, such as <code>O</code>，<code>F</code>，<code>P</code></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_totalprice</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's price</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderdate</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order date</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderpriority</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's priority with value range <code>1-URGENT</code>, <code>2-HIGH</code>, <code>3-MEDIUM</code>, <code>4-NOT SPECIFIED</code>, <code>5-LOW</code></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_clerk</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>information of clerk</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_shippriority</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>shipping priority</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Schema of `nation`
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>n_nationkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_name</td>
        <td>CHAR(25) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation name</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_regionkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>region's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(152) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>


Schema of `customer`
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>c_custkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's key, primary key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_name</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's name</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_address</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's address</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_nationkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's nation, foreign key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_phone</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's phone number</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_acctbal</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's account balance</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_mktsegment</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's market segment</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

#### About Business Insights  
  
  - This query reports the annual purchase power of each nation's customer
  - Purchase power is calculated by `sum(o_totalprice)`.

#### Brief Step Summary 
  1. Start MySQL container via docker compose, and the container will generate data with scale factor 1 and load the following three tables under the database `tpch_s1` automatically. It takes about 1-2 minutes to generate the data, and about 1-3 minutes to load the data. During this period, you can download and prepare Flink, Flink CDC and FTS dependencies, and start Flink cluster and SQL CLI.
   
      - `orders.tbl` to `orders`
      - `customer.tbl` to `customer` 
      - `nation.tbl` to `nation`       
  
  2. After the load finishes, start the streaming CDC job to sync the full snapshot to FTS DWD table and downstream pipelines.
  
  3. Start Zeppelin container to visualize the aggregated result.

## Get Started 

### Build Dokcer Image & Start Container
Before start, please make sure your local machine has a least 10G free Docker Disk Image.  
Under directory `flink-table-store-101/lookup-join`, execute
```bash
docker compose build --no-cache && docker-compose up -d --force-recreate
```
This will invoke the Docker to first build a customized MySQL image which is initialized by TPC-H toolkit with scale factor 1. The build phase takes abount to 1-2 minitues (it depends). After the build phase, the MySQL container is initialized with `tpch_s1` as database name，and three tables, and use `LOAD DATA INFILE` to load the data. You can use `docker compose logs -f` track the loading progress. It takes about 2-3 minutes to finish the loading. 

Meanwhile, you can also enter the internal container by `docker exec -it ${container-id} bash`, and the current working directory should be `/tpch/dbgen`, use `wc -l *.tbl` to check the the record num and compare with MySQL tables.

![validate load](../pictures/validate-load.png)

**The loading process completes when you see the following log, which indicates you can start the Flink CDC job now**
```plaintext
[System] [MY-010931] [Server] /usr/sbin/mysqld: ready for connections. Version: '8.0.30'  socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock'  port: 3306  MySQL Community Server - GPL.
```

### Download Flink Release, FTS and Other Dependencies
This demo uses [flink-1.14.5 release](https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html#apache-flink-1145), and the extra dependecies needed are
- Flink MySQL CDC Connector 
- FTS compiled on master branch with Flink 1.14 profile
- Hadoop Bundle Jar

To ease the preparation，the mentioned dependecies are already packed under the directory of `flink-table-store-101/flink/lib` of this repository, you can directly download and put them under `flink-1.14.5/lib` on your local machine. If you prefer do it by yourself, you can also reach to

- [flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/ververica/flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc/2.2.1/flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar)  
- [Hadoop Bundle Jar](https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber/2.8.3-10.0/flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber-2.8.3-10.0.jar) 
- Switch to master branch and use JKD8 and `mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.skip=true -Pflink-1.14` to build the latest FTS.

Now you can list the `lib` directory to check the completeness of denepdnecies.
```
lib
├── flink-csv-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-dist_2.11-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-json-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber-2.8.3-10.0.jar
├── flink-shaded-zookeeper-3.4.14.jar
├── flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar
├── flink-table-store-dist-0.3-SNAPSHOT.jar
├── flink-table_2.11-1.14.5.jar
├── log4j-1.2-api-2.17.1.jar
├── log4j-api-2.17.1.jar
├── log4j-core-2.17.1.jar
└── log4j-slf4j-impl-2.17.1.jar
```

### Step3 - Modify flink-conf and Start Cluster
`vim flink-1.14.5/conf/flink-conf.yaml` with following conf
```yaml
jobmanager.memory.process.size: 4096m
taskmanager.memory.process.size: 4096m
taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots: 8
parallelism.default: 1
execution.checkpointing.interval: 1min
state.backend: rocksdb
state.backend.incremental: true
jobmanager.execution.failover-strategy: region
execution.checkpointing.checkpoints-after-tasks-finish.enabled: true
```

If you want to observe the verbose info of compaction and commit for FTS, you can pick one or all of the following properties to `log4j.properties` under the `flink-1.14.5/conf` as needed
```
# Log FTS
logger.commit.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.file.operation.FileStoreCommitImpl
logger.commit.level = DEBUG

logger.compaction.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.file.mergetree.compact
logger.compaction.level = DEBUG

logger.enumerator.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.connector.source.ContinuousFileSplitEnumerator
logger.enumerator.level = DEBUG
```
Then start the cluster by `./bin/start-cluster.sh` under directory `flink-1.14.5`

### Step4 - Start Flink SQL CLI with Initialized Schema SQL
Under `flink-1.14.5` touch a file `schema.sql` and paste the following SQL to initialize.
```sql
-- switch to streaming mode
SET 'execution.runtime-mode' = 'streaming';

-- set result mode to tableau
SET 'sql-client.execution.result-mode' = 'tableau';

-- create FTS catalog and set it to current catalog
CREATE CATALOG `table_store` WITH (
    'type' = 'table-store',
    'warehouse' = '/tmp/table-store-101'
);

USE CATALOG `table_store`;

-- ODS table schema

-- note that under the FTS catalog, when you create some other mirroring tables with connectors, you need to explictly state them as temporary
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_orders` (
  `o_orderkey`       INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey`        INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus`    CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate`      DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority`  CHAR(15) NOT NULL,  
  `o_clerk`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL, 
  `o_shippriority`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_comment`        VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'orders'
);

CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_customer` (
  `c_custkey`     INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_name`        VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `c_address`     VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_phone`       CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment`  CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment`     VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'customer'
);

CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_nation` (
  `n_nationkey`  INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_name`       CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `n_regionkey`  INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_comment`    VARCHAR(152),
  PRIMARY KEY (`n_nationkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'nation'
);

-- DWD table schema
CREATE TABLE `dwd_orders` (
  `o_year`           BIGINT NOT NULL, -- computed against o_orderdate
  `ptime`            AS PROCTIME(),
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (`o_year`)
WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input'
) LIKE `ods_orders` (EXCLUDING CONSTRAINTS EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

CREATE TABLE `dwd_customer` LIKE `ods_customer` (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

CREATE TABLE `dwd_nation` LIKE `ods_nation` (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

-- disable sink materialize and use sequence.field to specifiy the order when merging happens
SET 'table.exec.sink.upsert-materialize' = 'none';

-- enriched table
CREATE TABLE dwd_enriched_orders (
  `o_year`           BIGINT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderkey`       INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey`        INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus`    CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate`      DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority`  CHAR(15) NOT NULL,  
  `o_clerk`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL, 
  `o_shippriority`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_comment`        VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL,
  `c_name`           VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `c_address`        VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey`      INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_phone`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal`        DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment`     CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment`        VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL,
  `n_name`           CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `n_regionkey`      INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_comment`        VARCHAR(152) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input',
  'sequence.field' = 'o_orderdate' -- use o_orderdate to generate sequence id, in order to avoid disorder
);

-- ADS table schema
CREATE TABLE ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator (
  `o_year`              BIGINT,
  `n_name`              CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `o_sum_totalprice`    DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `n_name`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input',
  'merge-engine' = 'aggregation', -- o_totalprice will be aggregated as o_sum_totalprice
  'fields.o_sum_totalprice.aggregate-function' = 'sum'
);
```
Then start SQL CLI
```bash
./bin/sql-client.sh -i schema.sql
```

### Step5 - Submit Flink ETL Pipeline

- Job1 - `ods_orders` to `dwd_orders`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_orders';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_orders`
  SELECT
    `o_orderkey`,
    `o_custkey`,    
    `o_orderstatus`, 
    `o_totalprice`, 
    `o_orderdate`, 
    `o_orderpriority`, 
    `o_clerk`,        
    `o_shippriority`, 
    `o_comment`,
    YEAR(`o_orderdate`) AS `o_year`
  FROM `ods_orders`;
  ```

- Job2 - `ods_nation` to `dwd_nation`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_nation';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_nation`
  SELECT * FROM `ods_nation`;
  ```

- Job3 - `ods_customer` to `dwd_customer`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_customer';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_customer`
  SELECT * FROM `ods_customer`;
  ```

- Job4 - perform look up join and write to `dwd_enriched_orders`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_enriched_orders';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO dwd_enriched_orders
  SELECT 
    YEAR(`d`.`o_orderdate`) AS `o_year`, 
    `d`.`o_orderkey`,
    `d`.`o_custkey`,
    `d`.`o_orderstatus`,
    `d`.`o_totalprice`,
    `d`.`o_orderdate`,
    `d`.`o_orderpriority`,
    `d`.`o_clerk`,
    `d`.`o_shippriority`,
    `d`.`o_comment`,
    `d`.`c_name`,
    `d`.`c_address`,
    `d`.`c_nationkey`,
    `d`.`c_phone`,
    `d`.`c_acctbal`,
    `d`.`c_mktsegment`,
    `d`.`c_comment`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_name`, CAST('UNKNOWN' AS CHAR(25))) AS `n_name`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_regionkey`, -1) AS `n_regionkey`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_comment`, 'missing comments') AS `n_comment`
  FROM (
    SELECT
    `o`.*, 
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_name`, ' Customer#anoymous') AS `c_name`, 
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_address`, 'anoymous') AS `c_address`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_nationkey`, -1) AS `c_nationkey`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_phone`, '00-000-000-0000') AS `c_phone`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_acctbal`, 0) AS `c_acctbal`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_mktsegment`, CAST('UNKNOWN' AS CHAR(10))) AS `c_mktsegment`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_comment`, 'missing comments') AS `c_comment`
    FROM `dwd_orders` AS `o`
    LEFT JOIN `dwd_customer` FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
    ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`
  ) `d` LEFT JOIN `dwd_nation` FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `d`.`ptime` AS `n`
  ON `d`.`c_nationkey` = `n`.`n_nationkey`;
  ```

- Job5 - Insert to table `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator` using pre-aggregation
  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator';
  INSERT INTO `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator`
  SELECT 
    `o_year`,
    `n_name`,
    `o_totalprice` AS `o_sum_totalprice`
  FROM `dwd_enriched_orders`;
  ```

### Step6 - Query & Visualize Indicators
We are now to use Apache Zeppelin Notebook to query and visualize our aggregated result.

First of all, `cd ${your-machine}/flink-1.14.5` 
since we need to mount the flink dist to Zeppelin container
```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 \
  --rm \
  -d \
  -v $(pwd):/opt/flink \
  -v /tmp/table-store-101:/tmp/table-store-101 \
  --name zeppelin apache/zeppelin:0.10.1
```

If everything goes well, you will see the homepage of Zeppelin Notebook by browsing `localhost:8080`.
![zepplin home](../pictures/zeppelin-home.png)

Then we need to set up the existed Flink cluster (on your host machine) as the Zeppelin Notebook's Flink Interpreter (as remote mode).

In order to do so, we need to get the host machine's IP address by executing
```bash
ifconfig | grep 'inet 192'| awk '{ print $2}'
```

And then modify the following configuration and substitue the placeholder `${host-ip}` by the previous IP.
```
FLINK_HOME: /opt/flink
flink.execution.mode: remote
flink.execution.remote.host: ${host-ip} 
flink.execution.remote.port: 8081
zeppelin.flink.uiWebUrl: ${host-ip}:8081
```
Last but not least, click the `Save` button, Zeppelin will automatically apply and restart.

![config zeppelin interpreter](../pictures/config-zepplin-interpreter.png)


Congratulations! We're almost done.

Then we can create a new Notebook called `Annual Nation Purchase Power Indicator` and choose `flink` as Interpreter type.

Since we've mounted `/tmp/table-store-101`, we can directly register and use `table_store` catalog.

```sql
%flink.bsql
CREATE CATALOG table_store WITH (
    'type' = 'table-store',
    'warehouse' = '/tmp/table-store-101'
);
```

```sql
%flink.bsql
USE CATALOG table_store
```
We can `SHOW TABLES` and `DESCRIBE ${table}` to check the table info.

```sql
%flink.bsql
DESC ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator
```

![create zeppelin notebook](../pictures/zeppelin-create-notebook.gif)

Then we can query and visualize the table `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator`. Choose `Bar Chart` as result type, `o_year` as keys, `n_name` as groups and `o_sum_totalprice` as values.
```sql
%flink.bsql
SELECT * FROM ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator
```
![zeppelin detail 2](../pictures/zeppelin-detail-2.png)


### Step8 - Finish Demo & Cleanup
1. Execute `exit;`  to exit Flink SQL CLI
2. Under `flink-1.14.5` directory, execute ./bin/stop-cluster.sh to stop Flink cluster
3. 执行 `docker stop zeppelin && docker rm zeppelin` 停止并删除 Zeppelin 容器
4. Under `table-store-101/lookup-join` directory, execute
    ```bash
    docker compose down && docker rmi lookup-join_mysql-101 && docker volume prune && docker builder prune
    ```
    Note: add `-f` for `prune` at your own risk.
5. Execute `rm -rf /tmp/table-store-101`

## Appendix
TPC-H's table relation
  ![tpch schema](../pictures/tpch-schema.png)

Commit message:

Use host.docker.internal as gateway and update README

lookup-join/README.md, after:

# Lookup Join and Pre-aggregated Insert using Flink Table Store
*Read this in other languages* [简体中文](https://github.com/LadyForest/flink-table-store-101/blob/master/lookup-join/README.zh.md)

## Brief Introduction
This is a handy demo to illustrate how Flink Table Store (*abbr.* **FTS**) supports look-up join and use pre-aggregate as merge engine. The aggregated result is visualized by Apache Zeppelin.
![front cover](../pictures/front-cover.gif)

The TPC-H toolkit, MySQL and Zeppelin notebook are running on docker containers, and Flink release and FTS dependencies are downloaded and running on your host machine.

#### About Data Genration  
[TPC-H](https://www.tpc.org/tpch/) as a classic Ad-hoc query benchmark, it reveals not only the performance of SUT (system under test), but also models all sorts of data requirements close to the business senario in the real-word. This demo chooses `orders`, `customer` and `nation` and simplified TPC-H Q5 to demonstrate the capability of FTS.

Schema of `orders` 
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>main order's key, primary key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_custkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderstatus</td>
        <td>CHAR(1)</td>
        <td>order's status, such as <code>O</code>，<code>F</code>，<code>P</code></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_totalprice</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's price</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderdate</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order date</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_orderpriority</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's priority with value range <code>1-URGENT</code>, <code>2-HIGH</code>, <code>3-MEDIUM</code>, <code>4-NOT SPECIFIED</code>, <code>5-LOW</code></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_clerk</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>information of clerk</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_shippriority</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>shipping priority</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>order's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Schema of `nation`
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>n_nationkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_name</td>
        <td>CHAR(25) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation name</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_regionkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>region's key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>n_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(152) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>nation's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>


Schema of `customer`
<table>
  <thead>
      <tr>
          <th>Field</th>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>c_custkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's key, primary key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_name</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's name</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_address</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's address</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_nationkey</td>
        <td>INT NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's nation, foreign key</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_phone</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's phone number</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_acctbal</td>
        <td>CHAR(15) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's account balance</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_mktsegment</td>
        <td>DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's market segment</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>c_comment</td>
        <td>VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL</td>
        <td>customer's comment</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

#### About Business Insights  
  
  - This query reports the annual purchase power of each nation's customer
  - Purchase power is calculated by `sum(o_totalprice)`.

#### Brief Step Summary 
  1. Start MySQL container via docker compose, and the container will generate data with scale factor 1 and load the following three tables under the database `tpch_s1` automatically. It takes about 1-2 minutes to generate the data, and about 1-3 minutes to load the data. During this period, you can download and prepare Flink, Flink CDC and FTS dependencies, and start Flink cluster and SQL CLI.
   
      - `orders.tbl` to `orders`
      - `customer.tbl` to `customer` 
      - `nation.tbl` to `nation`       
  
  2. After the load finishes, start the streaming CDC job to sync the full snapshot to FTS DWD table and downstream pipelines.
  
  3. Start Zeppelin container to visualize the aggregated result.

## Get Started 

### Build Dokcer Image & Start Container
Before start, please make sure your local machine has a least 10G free Docker Disk Image.  
Under directory `flink-table-store-101/lookup-join`, execute
```bash
docker compose build --no-cache && docker-compose up -d --force-recreate
```
This will invoke the Docker to first build a customized MySQL image which is initialized by TPC-H toolkit with scale factor 1. The build phase takes abount to 1-2 minitues (it depends). After the build phase, the MySQL container is initialized with `tpch_s1` as database name，and three tables, and use `LOAD DATA INFILE` to load the data. You can use `docker compose logs -f` track the loading progress. It takes about 2-3 minutes to finish the loading. 

Meanwhile, you can also enter the internal container by `docker exec -it ${container-id} bash`, and the current working directory should be `/tpch/dbgen`, use `wc -l *.tbl` to check the the record num and compare with MySQL tables.

![validate load](../pictures/validate-load.png)

**The loading process completes when you see the following log, which indicates you can start the Flink CDC job now**
```plaintext
[System] [MY-010931] [Server] /usr/sbin/mysqld: ready for connections. Version: '8.0.30'  socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock'  port: 3306  MySQL Community Server - GPL.
```

### Download Flink Release, FTS and Other Dependencies
This demo uses [flink-1.14.5 release](https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html#apache-flink-1145), and the extra dependecies needed are
- Flink MySQL CDC Connector 
- FTS compiled on master branch with Flink 1.14 profile
- Hadoop Bundle Jar

To ease the preparation，the mentioned dependecies are already packed under the directory of `flink-table-store-101/flink/lib` of this repository, you can directly download and put them under `flink-1.14.5/lib` on your local machine. If you prefer do it by yourself, you can also reach to

- [flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/ververica/flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc/2.2.1/flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar)  
- [Hadoop Bundle Jar](https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber/2.8.3-10.0/flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber-2.8.3-10.0.jar) 
- Switch to master branch and use JKD8 and `mvn clean install -Dmaven.test.skip=true -Pflink-1.14` to build the latest FTS.

Now you can list the `lib` directory to check the completeness of denepdnecies.
```
lib
├── flink-csv-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-dist_2.11-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-json-1.14.5.jar
├── flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber-2.8.3-10.0.jar
├── flink-shaded-zookeeper-3.4.14.jar
├── flink-sql-connector-mysql-cdc-2.2.1.jar
├── flink-table-store-dist-0.3-SNAPSHOT.jar
├── flink-table_2.11-1.14.5.jar
├── log4j-1.2-api-2.17.1.jar
├── log4j-api-2.17.1.jar
├── log4j-core-2.17.1.jar
└── log4j-slf4j-impl-2.17.1.jar
```

### Step3 - Modify flink-conf and Start Cluster
`vim flink-1.14.5/conf/flink-conf.yaml` with following conf
```yaml
jobmanager.memory.process.size: 4096m
taskmanager.memory.process.size: 4096m
taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots: 8
parallelism.default: 1
execution.checkpointing.interval: 1min
state.backend: rocksdb
state.backend.incremental: true
jobmanager.execution.failover-strategy: region
execution.checkpointing.checkpoints-after-tasks-finish.enabled: true
```

If you want to observe the verbose info of compaction and commit for FTS, you can pick one or all of the following properties to `log4j.properties` under the `flink-1.14.5/conf` as needed
```
# Log FTS
logger.commit.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.file.operation.FileStoreCommitImpl
logger.commit.level = DEBUG

logger.compaction.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.file.mergetree.compact
logger.compaction.level = DEBUG

logger.enumerator.name = org.apache.flink.table.store.connector.source.ContinuousFileSplitEnumerator
logger.enumerator.level = DEBUG
```
Then start the cluster by `./bin/start-cluster.sh` under directory `flink-1.14.5`

### Step4 - Start Flink SQL CLI with Initialized Schema SQL
Under `flink-1.14.5` touch a file `schema.sql` and paste the following SQL to initialize.
```sql
-- switch to streaming mode
SET 'execution.runtime-mode' = 'streaming';

-- set result mode to tableau
SET 'sql-client.execution.result-mode' = 'tableau';

-- create FTS catalog and set it to current catalog
CREATE CATALOG `table_store` WITH (
    'type' = 'table-store',
    'warehouse' = '/tmp/table-store-101'
);

USE CATALOG `table_store`;

-- ODS table schema

-- note that under the FTS catalog, when you create some other mirroring tables with connectors, you need to explictly state them as temporary
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_orders` (
  `o_orderkey`       INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey`        INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus`    CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate`      DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority`  CHAR(15) NOT NULL,  
  `o_clerk`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL, 
  `o_shippriority`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_comment`        VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'orders'
);

CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_customer` (
  `c_custkey`     INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_name`        VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `c_address`     VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_phone`       CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment`  CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment`     VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'customer'
);

CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE `ods_nation` (
  `n_nationkey`  INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_name`       CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `n_regionkey`  INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_comment`    VARCHAR(152),
  PRIMARY KEY (`n_nationkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'mysql-cdc',
  'hostname' = '127.0.0.1',
  'port' = '3307',
  'username' = 'flink',
  'password' = 'flink',
  'database-name' = 'tpch_s1',
  'table-name' = 'nation'
);

-- DWD table schema
CREATE TABLE `dwd_orders` (
  `o_year`           BIGINT NOT NULL, -- computed against o_orderdate
  `ptime`            AS PROCTIME(),
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (`o_year`)
WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input'
) LIKE `ods_orders` (EXCLUDING CONSTRAINTS EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

CREATE TABLE `dwd_customer` LIKE `ods_customer` (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

CREATE TABLE `dwd_nation` LIKE `ods_nation` (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);

-- disable sink materialize and use sequence.field to specifiy the order when merging happens
SET 'table.exec.sink.upsert-materialize' = 'none';

-- enriched table
CREATE TABLE dwd_enriched_orders (
  `o_year`           BIGINT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderkey`       INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey`        INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus`    CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice`     DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate`      DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority`  CHAR(15) NOT NULL,  
  `o_clerk`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL, 
  `o_shippriority`   INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `o_comment`        VARCHAR(79) NOT NULL,
  `c_name`           VARCHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `c_address`        VARCHAR(40) NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey`      INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `c_phone`          CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal`        DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment`     CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment`        VARCHAR(117) NOT NULL,
  `n_name`           CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `n_regionkey`      INTEGER NOT NULL,
  `n_comment`        VARCHAR(152) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `o_orderkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input',
  'sequence.field' = 'o_orderdate' -- use o_orderdate to generate sequence id, in order to avoid disorder
);

-- ADS table schema
CREATE TABLE ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator (
  `o_year`              BIGINT,
  `n_name`              CHAR(25) NOT NULL,
  `o_sum_totalprice`    DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`o_year`, `n_name`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'changelog-producer' = 'input',
  'merge-engine' = 'aggregation', -- o_totalprice will be aggregated as o_sum_totalprice
  'fields.o_sum_totalprice.aggregate-function' = 'sum'
);
```
Then start SQL CLI
```bash
./bin/sql-client.sh -i schema.sql
```

### Step5 - Submit Flink ETL Pipeline

- Job1 - `ods_orders` to `dwd_orders`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_orders';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_orders`
  SELECT
    `o_orderkey`,
    `o_custkey`,    
    `o_orderstatus`, 
    `o_totalprice`, 
    `o_orderdate`, 
    `o_orderpriority`, 
    `o_clerk`,        
    `o_shippriority`, 
    `o_comment`,
    YEAR(`o_orderdate`) AS `o_year`
  FROM `ods_orders`;
  ```

- Job2 - `ods_nation` to `dwd_nation`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_nation';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_nation`
  SELECT * FROM `ods_nation`;
  ```

- Job3 - `ods_customer` to `dwd_customer`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_customer';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO `dwd_customer`
  SELECT * FROM `ods_customer`;
  ```

- Job4 - perform look up join and write to `dwd_enriched_orders`

  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'dwd_enriched_orders';
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO dwd_enriched_orders
  SELECT 
    YEAR(`d`.`o_orderdate`) AS `o_year`, 
    `d`.`o_orderkey`,
    `d`.`o_custkey`,
    `d`.`o_orderstatus`,
    `d`.`o_totalprice`,
    `d`.`o_orderdate`,
    `d`.`o_orderpriority`,
    `d`.`o_clerk`,
    `d`.`o_shippriority`,
    `d`.`o_comment`,
    `d`.`c_name`,
    `d`.`c_address`,
    `d`.`c_nationkey`,
    `d`.`c_phone`,
    `d`.`c_acctbal`,
    `d`.`c_mktsegment`,
    `d`.`c_comment`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_name`, CAST('UNKNOWN' AS CHAR(25))) AS `n_name`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_regionkey`, -1) AS `n_regionkey`,
    COALESCE(`n`.`n_comment`, 'missing comments') AS `n_comment`
  FROM (
    SELECT
    `o`.*, 
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_name`, ' Customer#anoymous') AS `c_name`, 
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_address`, 'anoymous') AS `c_address`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_nationkey`, -1) AS `c_nationkey`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_phone`, '00-000-000-0000') AS `c_phone`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_acctbal`, 0) AS `c_acctbal`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_mktsegment`, CAST('UNKNOWN' AS CHAR(10))) AS `c_mktsegment`,
    COALESCE(`c`.`c_comment`, 'missing comments') AS `c_comment`
    FROM `dwd_orders` AS `o`
    LEFT JOIN `dwd_customer` FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
    ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`
  ) `d` LEFT JOIN `dwd_nation` FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `d`.`ptime` AS `n`
  ON `d`.`c_nationkey` = `n`.`n_nationkey`;
  ```

- Job5 - Insert to table `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator` using pre-aggregation
  ```sql
  SET 'pipeline.name' = 'ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator';
  INSERT INTO `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator`
  SELECT 
    `o_year`,
    `n_name`,
    `o_totalprice` AS `o_sum_totalprice`
  FROM `dwd_enriched_orders`;
  ```

### Step6 - Query & Visualize Indicators
We are now to use Apache Zeppelin Notebook to query and visualize our aggregated result.

First of all, `cd ${your-machine}/flink-1.14.5` 
since we need to mount the flink dist and table store directories to Zeppelin container
```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 \
  --rm \
  -d \
  -v $(pwd):/opt/flink \
  -v /tmp/table-store-101:/tmp/table-store-101 \
  --name zeppelin apache/zeppelin:0.10.1
```

If everything goes well, you will see the homepage of Zeppelin Notebook by browsing `localhost:8080`.
![zepplin home](../pictures/zeppelin-home.png)

Then we need to set up the existed Flink cluster (on your host machine) as the Zeppelin Notebook's Flink Interpreter (as remote mode).
Click the `Interpreter` button and find `flink`, click `edit` button and modify the following configurations
```
FLINK_HOME: /opt/flink
flink.execution.mode: remote
flink.execution.remote.host: host.docker.internal 
flink.execution.remote.port: 8081
zeppelin.flink.uiWebUrl: host.docker.internal:8081
```
Last but not least, click the `Save` button, Zeppelin will automatically apply and restart.

![zeppelin config](../pictures/zeppelin-config.gif)


Congratulations! We're almost done.

Then we can create a new Notebook called `Annual Nation Purchase Power Indicator` and choose `flink` as Interpreter type.

Since we've mounted `/tmp/table-store-101`, we can directly register and use `table_store` catalog.

```sql
%flink.bsql
CREATE CATALOG table_store WITH (
    'type' = 'table-store',
    'warehouse' = '/tmp/table-store-101'
);
```

```sql
%flink.bsql
USE CATALOG table_store
```
We can `SHOW TABLES` and `DESCRIBE ${table}` to check the table info.

```sql
%flink.bsql
DESC ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator
```

![zeppelin create notebook](../pictures/zeppelin-create-notebook.gif)

Then we can query and visualize the table `ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator`. Choose `Bar Chart` as result type, `o_year` as keys, `n_name` as groups and `o_sum_totalprice` as values.
```sql
%flink.bsql
SELECT * FROM ads_nation_purchase_power_indicator
```
![zeppelin visualize](../pictures/zeppelin-visualize.gif)


### Step8 - Finish Demo & Cleanup
1. Execute `exit;`  to exit Flink SQL CLI
2. Under `flink-1.14.5` directory, execute ./bin/stop-cluster.sh to stop Flink cluster
3. Excute `docker stop zeppelin` to stop and remove Zeppelin container
4. Under `table-store-101/lookup-join` directory, execute
    ```bash
    docker compose down && docker rmi lookup-join_mysql-101 && docker volume prune && docker builder prune
    ```
    Note: add `-f` for `prune` at your own risk.
5. Execute `rm -rf /tmp/table-store-101`

## Appendix
TPC-H's table relation
  ![tpch schema](../pictures/tpch-schema.png)
